# Solving-N-queens-problem-by-hill-climbing-and-its-variants-
Solving N-queens problem by hill-climbing and its variants 

Problem Formulation:  The goal of the n-queen problem is to place n queens on a chess board so that no queen attacks any other. Local search algorithms typically use a complete-state formulation, where each state has 8 queens on the board, one per column. The successors of a state are all possible states generated by moving a single queen to another square in the same column (so each state has 8×7=56 successors). The heuristic cost function h is the number of pairs of queens that are attacking each other, either directly or indirectly. The global minimum of this function is zero, which occurs only at perfect solutions. 
 
Local maxima: a local maximum is a peak that is higher than each of its neighboring states but lower than the global maximum. 
 
Plateaux: a plateau is a flat area of the state-space landscape. It can be a flat local maximum, from which no uphill exit exists, or a shoulder, from which progress is possible. A hill-climbing search might get lost on the plateau. 
 
a) Steepest Ascent: It is simply a loop that continually moves in the direction of increasing value, that is, uphill. It terminates when it reaches a “peak” where no neighbor has a higher value. The algorithm does not maintain a search tree, so the data structure for the current node need only record the state and the value of the objective function. Hill climbing does not look ahead beyond the immediate neighbors of the current state. Starting from a randomly generated 8queens state, steepest-ascent hill climbing gets stuck 86% of the time, solving only 14% of problem instances. It works quickly, taking just 4 steps on average when it succeeds and 3 when it gets stuck. 
 
b) Steepest Ascent with Side Way moves: The algorithm above halts if it reaches a plateau where the best successor has the same value as the current state. Might it not be a good idea to keep going to allow a sideways move in the hope that the plateau is really a shoulder? The answer is usually yes, but we must take care. If we always allow sideways moves when there are no uphill moves, an infinite loop will occur whenever the algorithm reaches a flat local maximum that is not a shoulder. One common solution is to put a limit on the number of consecutive sideways moves allowed. For example, we could allow up to, say, 100 consecutive sideways moves in the 8-queens problem. This raises the percentage of problem instances solved by hill climbing from 14% to 94%. Success comes at a cost: the algorithm averages roughly 21 steps for each successful instance and 64 for each failure. 
 
 c) Random Restart Hill Climbing: The hill-climbing algorithms described above are incomplete. They often fail to find a goal when one exists because they can get stuck on local maxima. Random-restart hill climbing adopts the well-known adage, “If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.” It conducts a series of hill-climbing searches from randomly generated initial states, until a goal is found. It is trivially complete with probability approaching 1, because it will eventually generate a goal state as the initial state. If each hill-climbing search has a probability p of success, then the expected number of restarts required is 1/p
